---
title: "Predicting range-dependent underwater sound propagation from structural sources in shallow water using coupled finite element/equivalent source computations"
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2023-03-15-2023OE-number-1
excerpt: '<b>First attempt to couple structrual acoustic radiation with 3D underwater sound propagation</b>'
date: 2023-03-15
venue: 'Ocean. Eng.'
paperurl: http://TengjiaoHE.github.io/files/2023-03-15-2023OE-number-1.pdf
citation: '<b>T. He</b>, B. Wang, S. Mo and E. Fang, Predicting range-dependent underwater sound propagation from structural sources in shallow water using coupled finite element/equivalent source computations, <i>Ocean. Eng.</i>, 272:113904 (2023) (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.oceaneng.2023.113904)'
---

## Abstract

Predictions of underwater sound propagation (USP) from structural sources in complex shallow-water environments are crucial for underwater navigation, communication, and localization. Modeling range-dependent USP in shallow water remains challenging because structural acoustic radiation is coupled with complex waveguide physics. This paper presents a coupled finite element (FE)/equivalent source (ES) computation scheme for predicting the range-dependent USP from a structural source. The scheme involves coupled vibroacoustic FE/ES analyses and waveguide-field ES computations. The former computes the structural vibration response and reproduces the structural-acoustic radiation at arbitrary spatial positions. The coupled vibroacoustic FE/ES analysis provides the input for the waveguide-field ES computations, which couple the structural-acoustic radiation with the shallow-water environment. A multilayer acoustic-elastic ES method (ESM) is developed to accommodate sound speed inhomogeneities and a range-dependent elastic seabed. Numerical simulations demonstrate the interactions of structural-acoustic radiation with two-dimensional topographies and internal solitary waves. The proposed scheme is extended to three dimensions by combining the coupled vibroacoustic FE/ES analysis with a pre-corrected fast Fourier transform-accelerated ESM. The results validate the proposed scheme and demonstrate its benchmark-quality solutions and high numerical efficiency, suggesting great application potential for optimizing the sonar performance at the preliminary design stage.

