---
title: "A novel model order reduction technique for solving horizontal refraction equations in the modeling of three-dimensional underwater acoustic propagation"
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2024-07-06-2024JSV-number-4
excerpt: '<b> An order-reduced 3D adiabatic mode model is developped, providing naturally a wide-angle solution. Only a few seconds are required for longitudinally invariant environments, and the proposed model enables eﬃcient and accurate solutions on a coarse grid.</b>'
date: 2024-07-06
venue: 'J. Sound Vib.'
paperurl: http://TengjiaoHE.github.io/files/2024-07-06-2024JSV-number-4.pdf
citation: '<b>T. He</b>, J. Liu, S. Ye, X. Qing, and S. Mo, A novel model order reduction technique for solving horizontal refraction equations in the modeling of three-dimensional underwater acoustic propagation, <i>J. Sound Vib.</i>, 591: 118617 (2024) (https://10.1016/j.jsv.2024.118617)'
---

## Abstract

Modeling three-dimensional (3D) underwater acoustic propagation is vital for underwater detection , localization, and navigation. This article introduces a novel model order reduction (MOR) technique to solve horizontal refraction equations (HREs) in the modeling of 3D underwater acoustic propagation. This approach relies on an adiabatic approximation of the 3D sound field, representing the field as a combination of local vertical modes with their modal coefficients governed by a system of two-dimensional (2D) HREs. Inspired by normal mode theory, the coefficients in the expansion over vertical modes are determined by projecting them onto a lower-dimensional, orthogonal space defined by their transverse eigenfunctions. By artificially truncating the horizontal domain in the transverse directions using two perfectly matched layers (PMLs), the eigenproblem associated with the transverse eigenfunctions of the modal coefficients is closed and thus can be solved through a modal projection method. The modal projection method enables fast computation of modal coefficients in a longitudinally invariant environment within seconds, offering a naturally wide-angle solution covering ±90◦. The MOR method is extended to encompass fully 3D cases by introducing an admittance matrix, a memory-saving strategy that prevents numerical overflow when the longitudinal range is large. Moreover, the fact that the outer boundaries of the PMLs are range-independent allows the proposed MOR technique to perform well on a coarse grid when employing the Magnus scheme, significantly saving the numerical cost for the fully 3D simulation. Numerical simulations are provided for both longitudinally invariant and fully 3D scenarios, demonstrating the high accuracy and efficiency of the proposed MOR technique in solving HREs.


