---
title: "Broadband enhancement and suppression of backscattering from objects in shallow-sea waveguides through the prescription of incident wavefronts"
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-11-03-2025NPJACOUST-number-2
excerpt: '<b> A practical tool for assessing the adverse impact of shipping noise on marine fauna, achieving 3D directional underwater acoustic propagation using a single propagation model run.</b>'
date: 2025-06-17
venue: 'npj Acoust.'
paperurl: http://TengjiaoHE.github.io/OceanSoniX/files/2025-11-03-2025NPJACOUST-number-2.pdf
citation: '<b>T. He</b>, S. Mo, and X. Qing, Semi-analytical solution for three-dimensional underwater acoustic propagation from a directional source, <i>J. Sound Vib.</i>, 618 Part A: 119253 (2025) (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsv.2025.119253)'
---

## Abstract

This paper presents a methodology for enhancing and suppressing backscattering from submerged objects in shallow-water waveguides. A hybrid numerical model is developed that integrates a twostep finite element method (FEM) and a normal mode (NM) algorithm. The FEM scheme computes the near-field scattered field generated by an elastic structure under non-plane-wave incident conditions in a shallow-water environment. A modal filter technique is then applied to construct the modaldomain reflection and transmission matrices of the scattering region using the near-field data derived from the FEM. Scattering enhancement and suppression are achieved by maximizing the Rayleigh quotient of these matrices, with the prescribed incident wavefront determined via singular-value decomposition. The scattered field is subsequently reconstructed using the prescribed wavefront and the NM algorithm. Validation of the hybrid model is performed through comparison with a direct FEM simulation for an elastic spherical shell. Further simulations are conducted for realistic scenarios involving multiple spherical scatterers and a benchmark submarine model. The results demonstrate that the proposed method enables broadband control of backscattering in shallow-water waveguides.
