---
title: "Semi-analytical solution for three-dimensional underwater acoustic propagation from a directional source"
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2025-06-17-2025JSV-number-1
excerpt: '<b> A practical tool for assessing the adverse impact of shipping noise on marine fauna, achieving 3D directional underwater acoustic propagation using a single propagation model run.</b>'
date: 2025-06-17
venue: 'J. Sound Vib.'
paperurl: http://TengjiaoHE.github.io/OceanSoniX/files/2025-06-17-2025JSV-number-1.pdf
citation: '<b>T. He</b>, S. Mo, and X. Qing, Semi-analytical solution for three-dimensional underwater acoustic propagation from a directional source, <i>J. Sound Vib.</i>, 618 Part A: 119253 (2025) (https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jsv.2025.119253)'
---

## Abstract

This article presents a semi-analytical solution for 3D underwater acoustic propagation from a directional source within the framework of adiabatic normal modes. The solution is derived from a double-summation expression provided by the adiabatic mode model using the Fraunhofer far-field approximation and Taylor series expansions to simplify the source-strength integral for directional radiation from a complex source. The derived solution is validated through comparisons with a 2D normal mode code for a directional source in a Pekeris waveguide. Two additional examples highlight the solution’s effectiveness in complex engineering problems, including directional propagation under moving internal wave conditions and underwater radiated noise from a vessel near Long Island Sound. A key advantage of this method lies in its semi-analytical formulation, which reduces the process of incorporating source directivity into 3D underwater acoustic propagation to a single propagation model run. Even in fully 3D scenarios, when the transverse eigenfunctions of vertical modal coefficients are coupled, the Dirichlet-to-Neumann operator representing the radiation condition can be stored and reused if the directional source term changes. This improves computational efficiency and reduces numerical costs. Furthermore, the method’s full-angle propagation capability ensures an accurate description of the detailed characteristics of complex sources.
